Title: Glossar

----

Text:

**A**
Age-nuri
Lit. upper painting. The upper layers of lacquer typically in reference to the Tsugaru-nuri techniques. See also: uwa-nuri.
Ai
Indigo dye obtained from the Japanese indigo plant, Polygonum tinc- torium. The dye was used to color urushi as well as to dye the yellow shioh pigment green. See also: ao-urushi, iro-urushi, pigments, seishitsu
Ai-same - Lit. blue shark (stingray). See same-nuri
Aizu-nuri
The name for lacquerware originating from Aizu, Fukushima prefecture in Japan. Aizu is well known for their hana-nuri finishes as well as their maki-e.
Aji
Lit. taste. The softened quality that lacquer attains over time, similar in idea to patina on metal. As on metal, sometimes the effect is imitated in lacquer. See also: negoro-nuri
Aka-fun
Lit. red powder. A mixture of shu (vermilion) and metal powder used in various lacquer techniques.
Akakuchihonshu - an intense orangy- red color. Akarui-shû - A bright shade red lacquer.
Akarui-shû-nuri:
Coating with red lacquer of bright red shade.
Akebono-nuri
Lit. dawn painting. Also bokashi-nuri, a technique of applying colored lacquer in a smooth transition from one color to another. Although other colors may be used, typically a red-black or red-yellow gradation is used. See also: bokashi
Amani-yu
Lit. Linseed oil. Linseed oil is a drying oil used as a modern replacement for perilla oil for making hana-urushi.
Ao
The color blue or green. Although there is a separate word for green, midori, when speaking of certain things, lacquer traditionally included, blue and green are combined into one word e.g. ao-zora (blue
sky), aoi yasai (green vegetables)
Aogai
Lit. blue/green shell. The blue and green iridescent shells from various species of abalone (Haliotis spp.) used typically used in raden as usu- gai or kenma. It is also frequently sprinkled as on as small fragments or powders in a raden technique called mijingai-nuri. See also: awabi
Aokin-fun
Lit. blue gold powder. A mixture of gold and silver powders, applied either mixed or in alternation to give a paler, more restrained gold color to maki-e. See also: gin, kin
Ao-urushi
Lit. blue/green lacquer. Also read as seishitsu. A blue or green lacquer traditionally created by mixing ai or shioh died with ai into suki-urushi to create blue or green respectively. In modern formulations, modern synthetic pigments such as phthalocyanine or chromium oxide can be used. See also: iro-urushi
Ao-urushi-nuri
Lit. blue lacquer painting. The lacquer technique of applying blue uru- shi. The technique is essentially the same is roiro-nuri except for the use of colored urushi for the upper layers. See also: udo-nuri
Ara-tsune
Lit. coarse common. The coarsest of the metal powders used for maki-e.
Arami-urushi
The unprocessed sap taken straight from the lacquer tree. At this point it is a milky white liquid that cannot be used as lacquer without further processing. The sap is filtered and left to sit for an extended period of time to allow partial oxidation as well as evaporation of some of the water content. Once the liquid reaches the proper water content and oxidization levels, it can be used as lacquer and is then called kiurushi.
Asuka period 592-710
Ashi
Lit. Lgs, The lines left back on the lacquer surface from the brush
Ashide-e
A term referring to lacquer objects with calligraphic ornamentation inter- spersed within a pictorial design.
Atsugai
Lit. thick shell. See raden Aventurine lacquer - A term once used in Eu- rope to refer to nashiji-nuri; cf. aventurine glass.
Awabi
Lit. abalone. Also awabi-gai. Scientientific classification Haliotis madaka or Haliotis gigantea, Haliotis spp. The Japanese name for two species of abalone native to the waters of Korea and Japan, whose nacre is frequently used in raden.
The nacre from these species of abalone exhibit an attractive iridescen- se with colors from a wide range of the visible spectrum, with none of the distinctive dark banding distinctive to most other species of abalone. It is used primarily in thin sheets called usugai and kenma. Occasionally the term is used for any and all species of abalone although more often when referring to abalone as a food-source. See also: ao-gai, mijingai- nuri
Awakeshi
The process to transfer freshly collected sap into raw lacquer. Shibugami paper is used to cover containers filled with freshly collected sap. Once a day the shibugami is disengaged from the sap to remove foam. The sap is exposed to air and gradually matures into raw lacquer
Aware
The Asian concept of impermanence has also given rise to a certain Japanese aesthetic ideal called aware. Aware amounts to a moment, circumstance, or happening, which arouses an deep, “sentimental me- lancholy.” In Japanese poetry, it’s often associated with autumn and the impermanence of the relative world. That this is seen as a desirable quality, in contrast to how Westerners sometimes view the transient cha- racter of nature, is an sign of the uniqueness of Japanese art.
Awatsubu-nuri - Lit. millet painting. See nanako-nuri

**B**
Bachiru
Japanese art technique and Japanese craft of engraving dyed ivory.
Bake
Alternate reading for hake when preceeded by a descriptor e.g. urushi- bake.
Bakumatsu era
(1853−1867) — the last era of the Edo Period in 19th century Japan.
Beni
The Japanese name for carthamin, a red pigment derived from safflo- wer, Carthamus tinctorius. It is also the name for the color crimson. See also: bengara, iro-urushi, pigments, shu
Benigara - See bengara
Bengara
Also benigara, a traditional reddish-brown to brownish-violet pigment used with urushi. It is traditionally derived from clay and earth, and the natural form will never be pure in its composition. The main constituent is Iron (III) Oxide, Fe2O3. Also known as: Red Iron Oxide, Red Earth, Mars

----

Images: - workshop.jpg

----

Texta:

**About my Work
**My urushiware and furniture is made from regional wood. The materials used on the urushiware are all natural and mostly unrefined. There are no chemicals or synthetics involved in the process.
The idea of my urushiware is to create something that lasts a long time, is eco friendly and can be repaired if needed. Making a cup or a bowl takes a long time, as I work in small series and try to work as careful as I can to ensure the object lasts a lifetime or even longer.

----

Textb:

**About Me
**Hi there, I’m Andrea, born 1983. I live and work in St. Gallen Switzerland. I make objects and furniture from different materials but mostly from wood and urushi. In 2000 I started a 4 year long apprenticeship as a polymechanican. My first journey to Japan 2004 has awoken the interest in urushi and japanese furniture design. That was when it all started.

----

Textc:

**About Urushi
**Urushi lacquer is a sap from a tree (lat. rhus verniciflua). Through cutting the stem the sap can be collected. Afterwards, the raw lacquer needs to be filtered and refined. When refining the raw urushi, the only energy source is heat which reduces the water content. Urushi hardens or cures at a humidity of 70-80% and a temperature between 20-25 degrees celsius. When cured, urushi withstands high temperatures and nearly all acids. It has antibacterial properties and is perfectly food safe.

----

Textd:

**My Studio and Showroom
**Since 2020 I have a new Studio in St. Gallen wich includes a small gallery. It is located at Moosbruggstrasse 25 and is 7 minutes away by foot from the mainstation. If you like to visit me or have a look, please send me an Email: info@andrearueeger.ch

----

Texte:

**How to order
**You like something you see and want to order it? Please send me an Email to: (link: mailto:info@andrearueeger.ch text: info@andrearueeger.ch)
Please note the Serial Number for ex. AR-01 012 in the mail, it helps to avoid mistakes and makes it easier to distinguish. I ship all over the world. shippingfees are based on the swisspost fees. Shipping overseas is usually 20 - 30 USD. If you have any questions please feel free to ask.

----

Address:

**Address
**Andrea Rüeger, Ekkehardstrasse 4, 9000 St.Gallen

----

Email: info@andrearueeger.ch

----

Phone: 079 264 87 50

----

Social:

- 
  platform: Instagramm
  url: >
    https://www.instagram.com/andrea_rueeger/?hl=en

----

Contact:

Kirby Magazine Inc.
Sesamestreet 1
Gotham City
USA